---
layout: post
title: Town Hall Minutes Spring 2019
author: Jessie Finocchiaro
---

Minutes from the semi-annual Computer Science Graduate Student Town Hall on April 4, 2019.

Agenda
----

-   New concerns and reporting page
-   Proposed Degree Requirement Changes
-   CSGSA Updates
-   Conference travel funding
-   Open Discussion

### New concerns and reporting page
- [bouldercsgrads.org/concerns](bouldercsgrads.org/concerns) 
- Addressing needs of people who find themselves in a situation and not knowing where to go for help 
- Characterized by what concern is, who’s involved 
- Additional form at the bottom for other situations not addressed in current form 
- Flow chart also recently provided by graduate school 

### Proposed Degree Requirement Changes
- Still a proposal 
- Will probably start applying in 2020 
- Current requirements 
    - MS 
        - 4 breadth from 9 bins 
        - Issues: Some areas offered inconsistently, has jeopardized graduation plans 

    - PhD 
        - 5 breadth outside area of focus 
        - Plan of study should be on file every semester 
        - Issues: No way to ensure fairness when students don’t follow requirements 

- New Breadth proposal 
    - Breadth: Take courses from 3 different bins 
    - Remaining courses as you please. 
    - Caveats 
        - Still 30 credits 
        - MS students restricted to 2 classes outside CSCI 
        - Independent study requirements still apply to research-based MS students 

- 6000 series for PhD students 
    - CSCI 6000 (Intro to PhD 1) 1 credit 
    - CSCI 6100 (Intro to PhD 2, taken in year ~3) 1 credit 
    - CSCI 6200 Research Colloquium 1 credit 
    - Will count to 30 credit total requirement 
    - PhD 1 vs PhD 2 
        - Currently: trying to cover the whole spectrum of PhD study 
        - Goal: by year 3, close to being done with courses.  Focus on community, research, giving talks, etc. with more information relevant to later PhD students 

    - CSCI 6200 would have a one semester commitment from a registration perspective 
        - Would be interesting to keep track of who attends colloquium. 
        - APPM and ICS keep track of attendance 

- Proposed Bins (Tentative) 
    - 3 bins 
    - Bin 1- Graphics, High Performance Computation, Principles of Computation, Chaotic Dynamics, PDE, Numerical Linear Algebra, Theory of Computation, Convex Optimization, Algorithms 
    - Bin 2- ML, NLP, Network Analysis, Neural Networks, Data Mining, Computer Vision, Advanced Robotics, Input Interaction and Accessability, User Centered Design, Human Robot Interaction, Intro to VR, Algorithms for HRI 
    - Bin 3- Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Verification, Networks, Datacenter Scale Computing, Intro to Cybersecurity, Ethical Hacking, Fundamentals of PL, Comp Bio 

- Grad Comm will review bins regularly 
- Support for more course sequences (ie 6000 level) 
- Trying to move to hire professional instructors for lower level so faculty are free to teach classes in their area of expertise 
    - Want a better faculty rotation planned for some of the popular classes 

- Once the system settles down, it would be nice to have breadth done in the first year 
    - Especially Masters students 
    - Masters switching to PhD would already have their breadth done 

- How to avoid large classes if that doesn’t match your learning style 
    - Some 5000 level classes will be huge, but not all.    

- Comment on how more summer classes would be helpful 
    - RA funding would have to cover tuition for summer classes. 
    - This summer: Multilingual NLP is being offered 
    - Dean’s Office doesn’t pay much to instructors, so it’s hard to recruit people. 

- Projects-based class in the works for professional Masters students 
    - 2 semesters (first Spring, second Fall) 

### CSGSA Updates
- Thanks for doing the climate survey 
    - Full report soon 

- Student space 
    - Working on it.  Waiting for Aero to move out 
    - Budget for a graduate student lounge has been added to CS dept budget 

- Diversity and Inclusion subcommittee 
    - Join #qualityoflife on Slack 
    - Focusing on Pipeline, Department Community, and Diversity Conference Funding 

- Student Fees 
    - UGGS and CRC are working on initiatives calling on end to student fees for students on appointment 
    - Brainstorming where the money would come from… don’t want to reduce the number of offered appointments or increase fees for other students. 
    - UGGS trying to declare financial independence from CUSG 
    - Any discussion of long-term plan to reduce student fees for everyone? 
        - CUSG trying to propose new budget system 
        - CUSG only has jurisdiction over 44% of student fees- trying to change that 

    - UGGS said it would cost $3mil to pay student fees for everyone on 25% appointment or higher 
        - Short term solution 
        - For graduate students, if graduate student fees can include student fees, it can be covered by NSF/DARPA/whatever grants for students on RA 
        - If RA happens, then TAs will follow suit. 
        - Concern of teachers not bringing in as many RAs, but profs at town hall say it won’t be a huge deal. 

    - Is UGGS also working on salary raises? 
        - Possible 6.2% raise 

### Conference travel funding
- Travel funding available for PhD students to attend conferences 
- Goal is to phrase it as a “conference scholarship” so students don’t have to pay money back to the school for bookkeeping 
    - As of F19 

- Trying to add in same type of funding for Masters students who are presenting research at conferences 
    - Again as of F19 

- Amount varies with the tier of the conference, if presenting at workshop, location of conference, etc. 
- Department has not run out of funds in a while 
- As scholarship, Dean’s office can’t match 
    - If faculty has DA, Dean’s office can still match that. 

- Application will still be the same 
- Working on proposal with the Dean’s office to get funding to send people to Tapia 


### Open Discussion
- Grader Applications 
    - Current process: call for applications, instructor looks through, interviews and picks their graders.   
    - No centralized system because different instructors have different requirements 
    - Open to suggestions 
    - Discrepancy of people filling out the form AND send email reaching out to professors 
        - Some professors get annoyed with the emails 
        - Encourage people not to send emails 
        - Encourage professors to not respond to mass emails  

- Remember grad comm is always open to questions/suggestions 
- CSGSA committee reps being elected for the fall 
- What would bring people to town hall 
    - More faculty?  We intentionally backed down on the faculty to not intimidate students in the past 
    - Try to recruit students to come through their faculty 

### Wrapping Up
- Upcoming events 
    - Grad student appreciation event April 5 
    - Research expo April 18 
    - Spring Picnic May 3 

- Liz is retiring as of August 21 
    - Thank you for her service